
DINNER DISASTER
“Ugh, meatloaf again? I hate meatloaf!” Matt yelled. “I’m not eating this.”
Matt’s mom and dad looked at each other. Matt’s outbursts had been
happening at least once a week all summer long.
“You know what, Matt? We’re going to let you take over dinnertime from
now on. You can pick the meals and cook them, as long as they’re
healthy,” Mom said.
“Good, we’re going to eat good food every night!”
Matt answered.
The next day, Dad sat down with Matt to make the
meal plan so he could go grocery shopping. Matt
had already been thinking about his favorite dinners. “We’re going to have
chicken tonight, and spaghetti tomorrow, and macaroni and cheese the
next day,” Matt started.
“Woah, hold on now,” Dad said. “What else are we going to have with the
chicken? We need to have at least one vegetable with each meal, and
usually we have another side to go with it.”
“Oh, yeah. Um, we can have corn with the chicken,” Matt said.
“Sophia does not like corn,” said Dad.
“Well, it’s my choice, so I’m going to make corn,” Matt replied.
“OK, but she might complain at dinner tonight. Are you ready for that?” Dad
asked.
“Yeah, whatever,” Matt answered.



Matt and his dad spent the next hour figuring out the whole week’s meals
and side dishes. It was a lot more work than Matt expected, and almost
every time he picked something out, his dad would tell him that someone in
the family wouldn’t like it. It was very frustrating.
“This is impossible!” Matt said, exasperated.
“Yes, it is hard. Your mother and I try very hard to make everyone happy,
but everyone has different tastes, and sometimes, we just can’t please
everyone.”
“Fine, we’ll have to just go with this plan this week.
Next week I’ll try to make everyone happy,” replied
Matt.
When his Dad was finished grocery shopping, it was
time for Matt to make his first meal. His parents
were both in the kitchen to help him, since he didn’t
know how to cook yet. They looked up the recipes
for chicken, rice, and broccoli with cheese. Wow, that’s a lot to do, Matt
thought, as he looked at the directions for everything. He was usually
playing video games or outside while his parents made dinner.
It took almost an hour to make dinner. There were so many steps! Matt was
tired and extra hungry when dinner was finished. He was also proud of
himself - he made dinner! And he knew he would like it tonight!
“Ew, this rice tastes funny,” Sophia said. Matt took a bite. It did taste a little
funny. But he’d worked so hard! He felt like he might cry.
“It’s OK, Matt, cooking is hard. It takes a long time to figure it out. Sophia,
be nice and please take three ‘no-thank-you’ bites. Matt worked really hard
on this dinner,” Mom said.
The next day, Matt didn’t want to cook dinner. “It’s hard,” he explained to
Mom.
“It is hard, but your father and I do it anyway. How are we going to eat,
otherwise?” said Mom.



“We should just go out to eat every night, then everyone can get what they
want and no one has to cook or clean,” Matt answered.
“I guess we need to work budgeting into this, too,” Mom quietly sighed. “We
spent about $190 on groceries this week. That was for 7 nights of dinner,
so if we divide that, it comes out to about $27 each night. Does that make
sense so far?”
“Yes,” replied Matt.
“Last time we went out to dinner,” began Mom, “we spent about $75. How
does that compare to the groceries?”
“That’s a lot more than $27.”
“It is, and that adds up. It would be really nice to go out every night, but that
would mean you couldn’t play soccer, and Sophia couldn’t do gymnastics.
We’d probably have to move to a smaller house and Dad and I would have
to share a car. Do you think that’s worth it?” Mom asked.
“Oh, wow, I guess not. I’ll get started with
dinner,” said Matt. Again, he was tired and
hungry when dinner was finally ready.
“I don’t like corn,” cried Sophia. Matt realized
then how his parents must feel every time he
complained about dinner. It took all of Matt’s
willpower not to yell at his little sister. He had worked so hard on dinner,
and it was impossible to make sure everyone liked every part of every
meal!
“I’m sorry, Sophia. I’m sorry, Mom and Dad. I shouldn’t have yelled at you
guys about dinner all the time. I didn’t know how hard it was to pick out
food everyone likes, and how hard it was to cook all of the food. I don’t
want to take over dinner anymore, I won’t complain,” Matt remarked.
“Thank you, Matt,” Mom and Dad said. Dad continued, “We’ll take back
dinner responsibilities. You’ll have to do it enough when you’re grown up!”
Matt felt a lot better. He happily finished his dinner and never complained
about a meal his parents made again.




MYSTERY OF THE BROKEN PIE
The sun was shining on the sparkling grass. It was morning, and the grass
was still wet from the dew. We were excited to see the sunshine after days
of rain! Sydney and I were tired of being stuck inside.
“Mom, can we go out and play?” I shouted.
“You and Sydney need to clean your rooms first. I’m excited to get some
fresh air in the house, it’s time for a good spring cleaning!” Mom answered.
Sydney and I looked at each other and groaned. We wanted to get outside,
not be stuck inside cleaning. But we knew we could go play as soon as we
finished cleaning. We decided to make it a race to see who could clean
their room the fastest. But we had to clean up the right way, otherwise Mom
would make us redo it.
“3… 2… 1… GO!” we shouted. I picked up all my
clothes and put them in my hamper. I tucked in my
sheets and pulled the comforter over my bed so it
looked like a magazine picture. All of my books went
back on the bookshelf, and my toys and games went
back in the closet.
“DONE!” I heard Sydney shout from her room down the hall.
“Aw, man, I was just about to shout it out. Good job, Sydney,” I said.
Sydney jumped up and down. “I never finish cleaning before you, Aiden!”
she exclaimed. She looked so excited I couldn’t even be mad at my little
sister.
“Let’s go outside,” I said. We walked into the kitchen, where my mom had
all the ingredients out to make her famous apple pie. “Can we go play
now?” I asked Mom. “Sure! I’m just going to get this pie in the oven and 



start cleaning. Make sure you stay in the yard, and if you play nicely, you’ll
get some pie in a few hours!” she replied.
Sydney and I played in the yard. We rode bikes, played on the swing set,
and made up adventures to go on. A couple of hours later, we could smell
the pie in the air. “Mmmmm,” Sydney said. “I’m hungry. Let’s go see if that
pie is ready.”
When we got in the house, we could hear Mom vacuuming in the living
room. Sydney and I walked to the kitchen to see if the pie looked ready.
Mom had set the pie to cool by the kitchen window. We peered up at the
pie and gasped. It was a mess! The crust on top had holes in it, and the
filling was all over the place.
“What happened?” Sydney asked. “Mom’s pies never look like that!”
“I don’t know, but we’d better figure it out before Mom sees the pie and
thinks we did it!” I answered. We ran back outside and sat down under the
tree. “What do you think could have happened, Sydney?”
“Hmmm… maybe Mom dropped the pie when she took it out of the oven.”
Sydney replied.
“Is there evidence for that?” I asked.
“I don’t remember, we’d probably have to go back and check around the
oven to see if there’s a mess.”
“Let’s think of other possibilities first, then we can go back and search the
scene of the crime. I would say that maybe the cat got into the pie, but we
don’t have a cat, so that can’t be it…”
Sydney and I sat outside for a while, trying to think of ideas. Birds kept
flying in and out of the tree above us. They gave me an idea. I looked
toward the kitchen, with the wide-open window.
“Hey, I bet that some birds smelled the pie and wanted a piece! It’s right by
the open window! We should go check for little bird footprints,” I said.

“You’re right!” Sydney exclaimed. “And if there aren’t any footprints, we can
look for other clues while we’re in the kitchen.”
We walked back into the kitchen. Mom was still vacuuming. Sydney and I
tiptoed over to the pie to search for evidence. Next to the pie, we saw the
filling, and one small footprint.
“That looks like a bird footprint, right?” I asked Sydney. She agreed. We
heard the vacuum turn off, and Mom walked into the kitchen.
“What are you two doing by the pie?” she asked.
“We came back in from playing outside and wanted some pie, because it
smells delicious. But when we got in here, the pie was a mess!” I said.
Sydney added, “We had to solve the mystery of why it’s broken in pieces,
because your pies are always beautiful. Aiden had an idea that some birds
might have gotten into it! Look, there’s a little footprint!”
“Oh goodness,” Mom answered, “you guys are right. I guess I’ll have to get
a screen back on this kitchen window. Well, what do you guys think about
going out to get ice cream since the birds ate our pie?”
“Yay!!!” we shouted, and dashed off to the car. Solving mysteries sure
makes you hungry!



